Let's talk just a tiny, tiny moment about the API server for the rest of this project.
So let's just open it in GitHub.
So in the project that I had you clone earlier, there is an API directory.
I wrote a little API for the rest of your project so that we can do some GET requests,
some POST requests, and all that kind of stuff.
It's just a little fastified Node.js app.
I'm not even going to purport that it's any good.
But it does work.
I don't need you to edit it at all for the entire remainder of the course.
You just got to run it.
So let's just look at it.
If we go to our GitHub here, it's this API directory.
You can see it's a little package.json.
It's got fastify.
And that's about it.
It has a SQLite database.
Okay.
And I think it's just a – it's got all of our static assets in there as well.
So it has the CSS, all of the pizza images, and all of the – yeah, like all that stuff
I didn't want you to have to deal with.
So – and then you can see here in the server.js, it's just a fastify project and doesn't
really do any much more than this.
But not stuff that you have to worry about at all.
Okay.
So, in whatever terminal that you're in, navigate to your API directory.
So you can see I'm in completeintro.reactv9project slash API.
Two things, npm install – again, vulnerabilities, no – doesn't matter, it's okay.
And then npm – let's take a look at that.
Okay.
Let's do run dev, because that'll be just fine.
And you should see something like this.
So if you go to localhost 3000, it's going to give you some sort of 404 error or something
like this.
I think it's API slash pizzas.
Yeah.
If you go to API slash pizzas on port 3000, you should get – I think it's API slash
pizzas.
Yeah.
If you go to API slash pizzas on port 3000, you should get 31 pizzas, I think is how many
I had in there, or 32 actually.
So what we want to do is we want to use Vite as the proxy.
And again, you don't really need to understand this too in depth, but essentially we want
to run our front end and our back end on the same port, right?
So we want everything running through port 5173 so that we don't have to worry about
cores.
And if you don't know what that is, bless you.
Okay.
If you do know what it is, you've been where I am, right?
So we're going to run everything through Vite.
Luckily, Vite makes this very easy to accomplish.
So I want you to open your Vite.config.js, and we're just going to add one little thing
here.
We're going to add server, and we're going to put a comma there, and we're going to add
a proxy.
And so you add basically things that you want to run.
Because you want to be proxied through this.
And so for slash API, you want to run that through target http://localhost 3000.
If you have not stopped your server from earlier in the course, please do that now, or else
this will interfere with this, by the way.
And then you want to add a change origin.
As well, there you go, 3000.
Change origin to be true, and we're going to do that as well for public.
Actually literally the exact same thing for public.
That's it.
So I added this.
This is going to proxy all of the requests from...
Localhost colon 5173 on API and public to localhost 3000.
So just to kind of prove my point here, I'm running my Vite server here.
I'm going to open this in my localhost, and if I do slash API slash pizzas like we were
just looking at, notice it still goes to that same API.
So notice that this and this, despite the fact that they're on the same server, they're still
on the same server.
They're on different ports.
Same thing, right?
That's all that that does for you.
It makes local dev much easier.
You used to have to do some black magic and some seances to get this to work correctly.
Now Vite makes it very easy.
Yeah?
Would that work for any localhost number then?
It's just specifically looking for anything following API.
Yep.
So it's only processing things after the API, and it doesn't even have to be localhost,
right?
You can proxy it to your database in the cloud, right?
Because you're just saying what the target is.
The target can be anything, right?
We're just doing it now in localhost, but this could be your lambdas on AWS or something
like that.
It's a pretty cool feature.
I think it is.
Even if this doesn't make total sense, as long as this is working, you don't have to
think about it anymore, which is probably half the benefit as well.